README.md, before:

![Version Image](https://img.shields.io/badge/Stable_Version-1.0.4-Green) ![Build Image](https://img.shields.io/badge/Build-32-blue)
# vNAS Sweatbox Scenario Generator

A standalone desktop application with a modern graphical interface for generating realistic air traffic control simulation scenarios for vNAS Data Admin Sweatbox files.

## System Requirements

- Windows 10/11 (64-bit)
- Google Chrome (for vNAS support)
- Internet connection (for flight plan API and auto-updates)
- Airport GeoJSON data
- CIFP file (required for TRACON arrival scenarios)

## Quick Start

1. **Download the latest release** from [the releases page](https://github.com/braukStauter/Sweatbox-Scenario-Generator--SSG-/releases)

2. **Extract the distribution folder** to any location on your computer

3. **Add your airport data** to the `airport_data/` folder:
   - `[AIRPORT].geojson` (e.g., KPHX.geojson)
   - FAA CIFP File (can be downloaded [here](url).)

4. **Launch SSG.exe** and follow the GUI workflow:
   - Select airport → Choose scenario → Configure → Generate!

## Features

-**vNAS Integration**: Directly modify scenarios in vNAS
- **Multiple Scenario Types**: Ground, Tower, and TRACON operations with departures and/or arrivals
- **Realistic Flight Plans**: Integrates with flight-plans.csko.hu API for authentic routing, callsigns, and aircraft types
- **Parking-Specific Airlines**: Configure specific airlines for parking spots with wildcard support (e.g., "A#" for all A gates)
- **GA Aircraft Support**: Automatic N-number callsigns, low-altitude routes, and less-common airports for GA parking
- **Airport Data Integration**: Parses GeoJSON files for parking spots, runways, and airport geometry
- **CIFP Support**: Reads FAA CIFP data for waypoint information and arrival procedures
- **Intelligent Aircraft Placement**: Proper spacing, altitude restrictions, and realistic positioning
- **Flexible Configuration**: Customizable parameters for each scenario type

## Scenario Types

1. **Ground (Departures)**: Generate departure aircraft at parking spots
2. **Ground (Departures/Arrivals)**: Mix of ground departures and arriving aircraft on final approach
3. **Tower (Departures/Arrivals)**: Tower operations with departures, including GA traffic, and arrivals with customizable spacing
4. **TRACON (Departures)**: Departure aircraft at parking ready for tower handoff
5. **TRACON (Arrivals)**: Arrival aircraft spawned at designated waypoints with altitude restrictions
6. **TRACON (Departures/Arrivals)**: Combined TRACON operations with both departures and arrivals

## Installation

1. **Download** the latest release (SSG_Distribution.zip) from the releases page

2. **Extract** the folder to any location on your computer

3. **Add your airport data** to the `airport_data/` folder as specified above

4. **(Optional)** Edit `config.json` to configure airline parking preferences

## Usage

**Simply double-click `SSG.exe` to launch the application!**

## Configuration

### Parking-Specific Airlines

Modify the `config.json` file to assign specific airlines to parking spots:

```json
{
  "parking_airlines": {
    "KPHX": {
      "A#": ["AAL", "AAL", "AAL"],
      "B#": ["SWA", "SWA", "SWA"],
      "C#": ["UAL", "UAL", "UAL"],
      "E1": ["JBU"]
    }
  }
}
```

**Wildcard Support:**
- Use `#` to match multiple parking spots
- `A#` matches `A1`, `A2`, `A3`, `A10`, `A11`, etc.
- Specific names override wildcards (e.g., `A1` overrides `A#`)

**Airline Weighting:**
- Repeat airline codes to increase probability
- `["AAL", "AAL", "DAL"]` = 67% AAL, 33% DAL

### GA (General Aviation) Parking

Parking spots with "GA" in the name automatically:
- Generate N-number callsigns (e.g., N123AB)
- Use GA aircraft types (C172, C182, PA28, etc.)
- Route to less-common airports
- Fly at lower altitudes (3000-8000 feet)

## Airport Data Format

### GeoJSON File Structure

This file is exported directly from vNAS Data Admin from the training airports section.

## Logging

The application includes comprehensive logging. Logs are saved to the `logs/` folder (created automatically on first run) and include:
- Data loading information
- Aircraft generation progress
- API call results
- Update check results
- Warnings and errors

## Notes

- Aircraft altitudes are specified in MSL (Mean Sea Level), including ground aircraft
- Ground aircraft have ground_speed set to 0
- Arrival aircraft are positioned with realistic spacing and altitude profiles
- TRACON arrival aircraft respect waypoint altitude restrictions when available
- Callsigns can include number suffixes for easy grouping (e.g., AAL**25**66, DAL**25**89 both spawn over the same waypoint)

## Credits

**Created by EM for ZAB**

Special thanks to:
- Flight plan data from flight-plans.csko.hu

Commit message:

Add cautionary note for vNAS scenario overrides
Added a warning about overriding scenarios in vNAS Data Admin.

README.md, after:

![Version Image](https://img.shields.io/badge/Stable_Version-1.0.4-Green) ![Build Image](https://img.shields.io/badge/Build-32-blue)
# vNAS Sweatbox Scenario Generator

A standalone desktop application with a modern graphical interface for generating realistic air traffic control simulation scenarios for vNAS Data Admin Sweatbox files.

## System Requirements

- Windows 10/11 (64-bit)
- Google Chrome (for vNAS support)
- Internet connection (for flight plan API and auto-updates)
- Airport GeoJSON data
- CIFP file (required for TRACON arrival scenarios)

## Quick Start

1. **Download the latest release** from [the releases page](https://github.com/braukStauter/Sweatbox-Scenario-Generator--SSG-/releases)

2. **Extract the distribution folder** to any location on your computer

3. **Add your airport data** to the `airport_data/` folder:
   - `[AIRPORT].geojson` (e.g., KPHX.geojson)
   - FAA CIFP File (can be downloaded [here](url).)

4. **Launch SSG.exe** and follow the GUI workflow:
   - Select airport → Choose scenario → Configure → Generate!
   [!WARNING]
   When pushing a scenario to vNAS Data Admin, be *very* cautious you don't override any existing scenario. This is unrecoverable.

## Features

-**vNAS Integration**: Directly modify scenarios in vNAS
- **Multiple Scenario Types**: Ground, Tower, and TRACON operations with departures and/or arrivals
- **Realistic Flight Plans**: Integrates with flight-plans.csko.hu API for authentic routing, callsigns, and aircraft types
- **Parking-Specific Airlines**: Configure specific airlines for parking spots with wildcard support (e.g., "A#" for all A gates)
- **GA Aircraft Support**: Automatic N-number callsigns, low-altitude routes, and less-common airports for GA parking
- **Airport Data Integration**: Parses GeoJSON files for parking spots, runways, and airport geometry
- **CIFP Support**: Reads FAA CIFP data for waypoint information and arrival procedures
- **Intelligent Aircraft Placement**: Proper spacing, altitude restrictions, and realistic positioning
- **Flexible Configuration**: Customizable parameters for each scenario type

## Scenario Types

1. **Ground (Departures)**: Generate departure aircraft at parking spots
2. **Ground (Departures/Arrivals)**: Mix of ground departures and arriving aircraft on final approach
3. **Tower (Departures/Arrivals)**: Tower operations with departures, including GA traffic, and arrivals with customizable spacing
4. **TRACON (Departures)**: Departure aircraft at parking ready for tower handoff
5. **TRACON (Arrivals)**: Arrival aircraft spawned at designated waypoints with altitude restrictions
6. **TRACON (Departures/Arrivals)**: Combined TRACON operations with both departures and arrivals

## Installation

1. **Download** the latest release (SSG_Distribution.zip) from the releases page

2. **Extract** the folder to any location on your computer

3. **Add your airport data** to the `airport_data/` folder as specified above

4. **(Optional)** Edit `config.json` to configure airline parking preferences

## Usage

**Simply double-click `SSG.exe` to launch the application!**

## Configuration

### Parking-Specific Airlines

Modify the `config.json` file to assign specific airlines to parking spots:

```json
{
  "parking_airlines": {
    "KPHX": {
      "A#": ["AAL", "AAL", "AAL"],
      "B#": ["SWA", "SWA", "SWA"],
      "C#": ["UAL", "UAL", "UAL"],
      "E1": ["JBU"]
    }
  }
}
```

**Wildcard Support:**
- Use `#` to match multiple parking spots
- `A#` matches `A1`, `A2`, `A3`, `A10`, `A11`, etc.
- Specific names override wildcards (e.g., `A1` overrides `A#`)

**Airline Weighting:**
- Repeat airline codes to increase probability
- `["AAL", "AAL", "DAL"]` = 67% AAL, 33% DAL

### GA (General Aviation) Parking

Parking spots with "GA" in the name automatically:
- Generate N-number callsigns (e.g., N123AB)
- Use GA aircraft types (C172, C182, PA28, etc.)
- Route to less-common airports
- Fly at lower altitudes (3000-8000 feet)

## Airport Data Format

### GeoJSON File Structure

This file is exported directly from vNAS Data Admin from the training airports section.

## Logging

The application includes comprehensive logging. Logs are saved to the `logs/` folder (created automatically on first run) and include:
- Data loading information
- Aircraft generation progress
- API call results
- Update check results
- Warnings and errors

## Notes

- Aircraft altitudes are specified in MSL (Mean Sea Level), including ground aircraft
- Ground aircraft have ground_speed set to 0
- Arrival aircraft are positioned with realistic spacing and altitude profiles
- TRACON arrival aircraft respect waypoint altitude restrictions when available
- Callsigns can include number suffixes for easy grouping (e.g., AAL**25**66, DAL**25**89 both spawn over the same waypoint)

## Credits

**Created by EM for ZAB**

Special thanks to:
- Flight plan data from flight-plans.csko.hu
